---
title: Audio API
__path__: >-
  [{"title":"Docs","route":"/docs"},{"title":"Audio
  API","route":"/docs/audio-api"}]
---

# Audio API

Unbody leverages [Mux (opens in a new tab)](https://mux.com/) to provide audio hosting and streaming services. With Mux you can expect a reliable audio streaming experience with many more features to enhance your audio content.

## Core Capabilities

-   **Streaming**: Deliver your audios to any device. Use Mux's multi-platform player or your preferred HLS player.
-   **Automatic Transcription**: Generate captions for your audio files (English only).
-   **Static Renditions**: Access static renditions of your audio files for offline viewing, direct downloads and other use-cases.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

-   An active Unbody account.
-   Access to the Unbody GraphQL endpoint.

### Fetch Your Audio

Every audio in Unbody is associated with a Mux asset. To stream an audio with Mux player, you need the `playbackId` associated with the asset, or you can use the `hlsUrl` directly with your preferred HLS player.

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    AudioFile {
      playbackId
      hlsUrl
    }
  }
}
```

### Setup Your Player

Here's an example of how you can use Mux React Player to stream your audio:

Mux React Player

```
import MuxAudio from "@mux/mux-audio-react";
 
const AudioPlayer = ({ title, assetId, playbackId }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <MuxAudio
        controls
        playbackId={playbackId}
        streamType="on-demand"
        style={{ height: "100%", maxWidth: "100%" }}
      />
    </div>
  );
};
```

Please refer to [Mux Documentation (opens in a new tab)](https://docs.mux.com/guides/play-your-videos) for more guides and examples.

## Auto Generated Captions (English Only)

Mux uses OpenAI's Whisper model to automatically generate captions for your audios - [read more (opens in a new tab)](https://docs.mux.com/guides/add-autogenerated-captions-and-use-transcripts).

Unbody stores these captions as `SubtitleFile` and `SubtitleEntry` objects, here's how you can retrieve them:

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    SubtitleFile(
      where: {
        operator: Equal
        path: ["media", "AudioFile", "originalName"]
        valueText: "your-audio-file.mp3"
      }
    ) {
      entries {
        ... on SubtitleEntry {
          start
          end
          text
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Here are some examples of how you can leverage the auto-generated captions:

-   Perform semantic search to find audio files or specific parts of audios based on your query.
-   Use the `ask` operator to get answers based on the audio transcription.
-   Use the `generate` operator to perform RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) on audio transcription.

Furthermore, if you have the auto-generated fields feature enabled in your project, Unbody utilizes the transcriptions to generate summaries, extract keywords, named entities, and more. These additional fields are added to both the `AudioFile` and `SubtitleFile` objects.

## Static Renditions

Mux generates static renditions of assets for offline viewing, direct downloads, scenarios where streaming HLS streaming is not possible, and other use cases. For audio files, Mux produces a single `.m4a` file. Here's how you can access it:

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    AudioFile {
      files {
        url
        name
        ext
        size
        bitrate
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## User Limits

**Free Plan:**

-   Audio files longer than 10 minutes are not supported.
-   Audio files larger than 60MB are not supported.
-   A maximum of 15 minutes of audio in total can be stored at once.

For an extended limit, consider upgrading your plan or contact support.

**Paid Plan:**

-   Audio files larger than 2GB are not currently supported.

Processing audio files doesn't impact build time; billing is based on duration and streaming time. See pricing details [here](/pricing).

## Known Issues and Limitations

-   Auto-generated captions are currently available exclusively for English audio content.
-   Accessing playback metrics is not currently supported.
-   Direct access to the Mux API is not currently supported.

[Best Practices](/docs/image-api/best-practices "Best Practices")[Video API](/docs/video-api "Video API")