---
title: Video API
__path__: >-
  [{"title":"Docs","route":"/docs"},{"title":"Video
  API","route":"/docs/video-api"}]
---

# Video API

Unbody leverages [Mux Video (opens in a new tab)](https://mux.com/) to provide video hosting and streaming services. With Mux you can expect a reliable video streaming experience with many more features to enhance your video content.

## Core Capabilities

-   **Streaming**: Deliver your videos to any device. Use Mux's multi-platform player or your preferred HLS player.
-   **Automatic Transcription**: Generate captions for your videos automatically (English only)
-   **Instant Thumbnail Generation**: Obtain thumbnails and animated images directly from your videos.
-   **Static Renditions**: Access static MP4 renditions of your video files for offline viewing, direct downloads, and other use-cases.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

-   An active Unbody account.
-   Access to the Unbody GraphQL endpoint.

### Fetch Your Video

Every video in Unbody is associated with a Mux asset. To stream a video with Mux player, you need the `playbackId` associated with the asset, or you can use the `hlsUrl` directly with your own HLS player of choice.

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    VideoFile {
      playbackId
      hlsUrl
    }
  }
}
```

### Setup Your Player

You can use the `playbackId` to setup a Mux player for your video. Alternatively, you can use the `hlsUrl` with your preferred HLS player.

Here are some examples:

Mux React PlayerHLS.js

```
import MuxVideo from "@mux/mux-video-react";
 
const VideoPlayer = ({ title, playbackId }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <MuxVideo
        controls
        playbackId={playbackId}
        streamType="on-demand"
        style={{ height: "100%", maxWidth: "100%" }}
      />
    </div>
  );
};
```

Please refer to [Mux Documentation (opens in a new tab)](https://docs.mux.com/guides/play-your-videos) for more guides and examples.

## Get Thumbnails and Animated Images

To retrieve a thumbnail or an animated image of your video, utilize the URLs provided in the `thumbnailUrl` and `animatedImageUrl` fields respectively. Customize these images using query string parameters to meet your specific requirements. For instance, you can adjust parameters such as width, height for the thumbnail:

`{thumbnailUrl}?time=10&width=800`

Similarly, for the animated image:

`{animatedImageUrl}?start=10&end=15&width=320&fps=24`

For more detailed guides, please consult the [Mux Documentation (opens in a new tab)](https://docs.mux.com/guides/get-images-from-a-video).

Below are the steps to retrieve the thumbnail and animated image URLs using GraphQL and TypeScript:

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    VideoFile {
      thumbnailUrl {
        png
      }
      animatedImageUrl {
        gif
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You can integrate the thumbnail URLs directly into your application as placeholders for the video. Below is an example demonstrating how to utilize the animated image URL with the Mux React Player:

```
<MuxVideo
  {
    /* Other props */
  }
  poster={animatedImageUrl}
  placeholder={animatedImageUrl}
/>
```

## Auto Generated Captions (English Only)

Mux uses OpenAI's Whisper model to automatically generate captions for your videos - [read more (opens in a new tab)](https://docs.mux.com/guides/add-autogenerated-captions-and-use-transcripts).

Unbody stores these captions as `SubtitleFile` and `SubtitleEntry` objects, here's how you can retrieve them:

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    SubtitleFile(
      where: {
        operator: Equal
        path: ["media", "VideoFile", "originalName"]
        valueText: "your-video.mp4"
      }
    ) {
      entries {
        ... on SubtitleEntry {
          start
          end
          text
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Here are some examples of how you can leverage the auto-generated captions:

-   Perform semantic search to find videos or specific parts of videos based on your query.
-   Use the `ask` operator to get answers based on the video transcription.
-   Use the `generate` operator to perform RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) on video transcriptions.

Furthermore, if you have the auto-generated fields feature enabled in your project, Unbody utilizes the transcriptions to generate summaries, extract keywords, named entities, and more. These additional fields are added to both the `VideoFile` and `SubtitleFile` objects.

## Static Renditions

Mux generates multiple MP4 renditions of video files in different resolutions and bitrates for offline viewing, direct downloads, scenarios where streaming HLS streaming is not possible, and other use-cases. Here's how you can access these files:

GraphQLTypeScript

```
query {
  Get {
    VideoFile {
      files {
        url
        name
        width
        height
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## User Limits

**Free plan:**

-   Video files longer than 5 minutes are not supported.
-   Video files larger than 100MB are not supported.
-   A maximum of 5 minutes of video in total can be stored at once.

For an extended limit, consider upgrading your plan or contact support.

**Paid plan:**

-   Video files larger than 2GB are not currently supported.

Processing video files doesn't impact build time; billing is based on video duration and streaming time. See pricing details [here](/pricing).

## Known Issues and Limitations

-   Auto-generated captions are currently available exclusively for English videos.
-   Subtitles embedded within video files are not stored and are unavailable via our API.
-   Accessing playback metrics is not currently supported.
-   Direct access to the Mux API is not currently supported.

[Audio API](/docs/audio-api "Audio API")[Overview](/docs/vectorizers/overview "Overview")